# hello

Welcome to your new hello project and to the internet computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with hello, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/quickstart/quickstart-intro.html)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/developers-guide/sdk-guide.html)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/language-guide/motoko.html)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/language-guide/language-manual.html)
- [JavaScript API Reference](https://erxue-5aaaa-aaaab-qaagq-cai.raw.ic0.app)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd hello/
dfx help
dfx config --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:8000?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

Additionally, if you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 8000.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`NODE_ENV` to `production` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.NODE_ENV` in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor


## Setup

### Requirements:

- Windows 10 or higher (version 2004 or higher). Build 19041.xxx or higher.
- 64-bit machine (System type x64 based PC)


### Steps for setup:

#### WSL:

- Find the Windows PowerShell in your Start menu and run it as the Administrator.
- WSL is the Windows Subsystem for Linux and it will allow us to run command line commands in Windows. Here’s more info from Microsoft: ​​https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install
- Run command into PowerShell: wsl --install
- Once that’s done, you’ll need to restart your computer.
- Upon restart you will be prompted to setup an ubuntu username and password and then you will have successfully installed WSL. (Keep a note of both of these pieces of information, you’ll need it later on).
- To confirm that everything worked correctly, type the following command into PowerShell: wsl --list --verbose
- You should see ubuntu version.

#### VSCode:

- Download and install the latest version of VSCode from here: https://code.visualstudio.com/
- Install the Motoko language extension in VSCode (make sure it’s from the Dfinity team, or just use the following link: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dfinity-foundation.vscode-motoko)
- Install the Remote WSL extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-wsl

#### Homebrew:

- Search and open up Ubuntu from the Start menu
- Type the following command to install homebrew (Alternatively copy it from the homebrew website https://brew.sh/): /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
- NOTE: Homebrew will make it easier for us to install other tools such as node. You might already have node installed on your windows system but because we’re working with WSL, you’ll need to install it on the linux system too.
- When prompted enter the password for the user that you set previously.
- The installer will tell you how to add brew to the PATH. Copy the  commands they list and run them one by one in Ubuntu.
- Also run the command under the line “Install Homebrew’s dependencies if you have sudo access”: sudo apt-get install build-essential
- Check that everything worked by typing the command: brew -version

#### Node:

- Install node using homebrew with the following command (replace 18 with current LTS): brew install node@18
- Run following command to link node (replace 18 with current LTS): brew link node@18
- Once it’s done check that it worked with: node -version

#### DFX:

- Open up Ubuntu from the Start menu
- Run the following command into your terminal and hit enter to install DFX: DFX_VERSION=0.9.3 sh -ci "$(curl -fsSL https://sdk.dfinity.org/install.sh)"
- After DFX has installed it will tell you where it was installed.
- Copy the installation path you got from the last step and replace {REPLACE WITH YOUR INSTALLATION PATH} from the command below (You can use Notepad for this): export PATH=$PATH:{REPLACE WITH YOUR INSTALLATION PATH}
- Paste the formatted command from the previous step and hit enter.
- echo "${PATH//:/$'\n'}"
- dfx --version

#### Test Everything Worked by Creating and Deploying your First DApp: 

##### Create the Default Hello DApp:

- Open up Ubuntu from the start menu and create a new folder called ic-projects using the following command: mkdir ic-projects
- Change directory into that folder using the command: cd ic-projects
- Inside this ic-projects folder, we’re going to create our first Internet Computer DApp using the following command: dfx new hello
- You can see this new project and folders by running the following command: explorer.exe .
- Open up VSCode and click on the green icon on the bottom left.
- Select Connect WSL Window 
- Inside the new window go to your Extensions panel and select the Remote WSL extension, click on Install in WSL: Ubuntu
- Now take a look through the files inside the src folder. The main.mo is the Motoko file that we’ll be writing most of our code in.

##### Deploy the DApp:
- Go to Terminal → New Terminal
- In the Terminal, run the following command to start the local dfx: dfx start
- Once you see the line INFO Starting server. Listening on blah blah blah, then split out another terminal
- In the new terminal pane, run the following command to deploy your hello project: dfx deploy
- Finally, once that’s done, run the following command: npm start
- NOTE: If getting error while running "npm start" then close all the terminals; open new terminal and run following commands:
    - npm install --save-dev webpack-cli
    - npm upgrade --save-dev webpack-cli
- AFter this follow first 4 steps in order, it will work
- Now you’re ready to see your hello project, open up your browser and go to: http://localhost:8080/